Platform chainhook documentation (#431)
hirosystems/docs: docs/platform/create-chainhook.md

---

> title: Create Chainhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create a chainhook
```

Author: @elenananana, The sidebar is updated based on the title of the doc. So, I will leave this as "Create Chainhook" to keep it consistent with the other sidebar items. 

![image](https://github.com/hirosystems/docs/assets/55154433/49710cbf-6a69-4efc-a9d3-68d4fae171d8)

---

# Create Chainhook

> Chainhook enables you to automatically trigger an action based upon an event occurring in Stacks, Bitcoin, and others. To learn more about Chainhook, refer to [Chainhook overview documentation](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With chainhooks, you can automatically trigger an action  in response to on-chain events on Stacks, Bitcoin, and other Bitcoin layers, enabling you to use IFTT (if_this, then_that) logic to power your applications. To learn more about Chainhook, refer to [Chainhook overview documentation](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/overview).
```

> With chainhooks, you can automatically trigger an action  in response to on-chain events on Stacks, Bitcoin, and other Bitcoin layers, enabling you to use IFTT (if_this, then_that) logic to power your applications. To learn more about Chainhook, refer to [Chainhook overview documentation](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/overview).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With chainhooks, you can automatically trigger an action in response to on-chain events on Stacks, Bitcoin, and other Bitcoin layers, enabling you to use IFTT (if_this, then_that) logic to power your applications. To learn more about Chainhook, refer to [Chainhook overview documentation](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/overview).
```

> This guide helps you create a Chainhook using the [Hiro Platform](https://platform.hiro.so/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide helps you create a chainhook using the [Hiro Platform](https://platform.hiro.so/).
```

Login to the [Hiro Platform](getting-started.md) and create or import a project by following [this](https://docs.hiro.so/platform/create-project) guide. Next, you can follow the steps below to create a chainhook.

Once you are on the [Projects page](https://platform.hiro.so/projects), select the project to create a chainhook.

![Create Projects](./images/chainhook-create-project.jpeg)

> You'll see a navigation bar with two tabs, Contracts, and Chainhook. Select Chainhook to create a new chainhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see a navigation bar with two tabs, Contracts, and Chainhooks. Select Chainhooks to create a new chainhook.
```

> You'll see a navigation bar with two tabs, Contracts, and Chainhooks. Select _Chainhooks_ to create a new chainhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll see a navigation bar with two tabs, Contracts, and Chainhook. Select _Chainhook_ to create a new chainhook.
```

Reviewer 2: @elenananana: I am not sure if you caught this, the tab is still referred to as "Chainhooks", and it should be the product/project name, no? Or you would prefer it to be the hooks (in plural)? If the latter, then it needs to be small-C, but it isn't. 

@LakshmiLavanyaKasturi: Let's hold onto this edit until @elenananana confirms.

Reviewer 2: cc: @andresgalante @BLuEScioN (please follow the chatter/feedback from @elenananana ^^)

Reviewer: @sabbyanandan - since the tab refers to predicates, and it is the title of the tab, it should stay as is plural and capitalized "Chainhooks."

Author: Marking this comment as resolved as there is no further change required.

![Create Chainhook Window](./images/chainhook-select-chainhook-tab.jpeg)

> Select the _Create chainhook_ button at the bottom of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the _Create a Chainhook_ button at the bottom of the screen.
```

![Create Chainhook Window](./images/chainhook-create-chainhook-window.jpeg)

A new pane opens up on the right to create a chainhook. Use the following fields to create a chainhook:

**Name**: Define a chainhook name of your choice.

**Chain**: Select between Bitcoin and Stacks to create a chainhook.

**Network**: Choose a network between `mainnet` and `testnet` to observe for events 

**If-this**: Based on the selected chain, you will see a list of available scopes for the `If-this` condition.

- For *Bitcoin*, the available predicate options are `txid`,`outputs`, `stacks_protocols`.

- For *Stacks*, the available predicate options are `txid`, `block_height`, `fungible_token_event`,
`non-fungible_token_event`, `stx_event`, `print_event`, `contract_deployment`.

> _**Note**_
>
> _Refer to the [Bitcoin predicates](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/how-to-guides/how-to-use-chainhook-with-bitcoin) and [Stacks predicates](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/how-to-guides/how-to-use-chainhook-with-stacks) documents to understand the available predicates and how to use them._
>

> **Then-that**: This action is defaulted to `http_post` to allow the chainhook post events to the URL specified in the below option.

Reviewer 3: the chainhook to post event

**URL**: Specify a URL to post chainhook events using the HTTP_post method.

**Authorization Header**: This field is optional to add a Secret to the `authorization` header when posting payloads.

**Start Block**: This field must specify the start block to search the chain.

**End Block**: It is optional to specify the end block. However, to optimize your scan time, it is recommended to specify this field.

**Expire After Occurrence**: You can specify a number greater than or equal to 1 to expire the chainhook after a specific number of occurrences. You can leave this blank if you don't want to set any limit.

**Decode Clarity Values**: This is enabled by default to help you decode clarity values in your contract.

> Once you define the fields, you can select **Create chainhook**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you define the fields, you can select **Create a Chainhook**.
```

> **Decode Clarity Values**: This is enabled by default to help you decode clarity values in your contract.

Reviewer 3: enabled by default for stacks predicates

> 

Reviewer 3: Missing bitcoing predicates

Author: @BLuEScioN, Can you expand on this? I didn't get you.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/hirosystems/chainhook#:~:text=//%20Include%20proof%3A%0A%22include_proof%22%3A%20false%0A%0A//%20Include%20Bitcoin%20transaction%20inputs%20in%20payload%3A%0A%22include_inputs%22%3A%20false%0A%0A//%20Include%20Bitcoin%20transaction%20outputs%20in%20payload%3A%0A%22include_outputs%22%3A%20false%0A%0A//%20Include%20Bitcoin%20transaction%20witness%20in%20payload%3A%0A%22include_witness%22%3A%20false

Reviewer 3: You don't mention these options 
// Include proof:
"include_proof": false

// Include Bitcoin transaction inputs in payload:
"include_inputs": false

// Include Bitcoin transaction outputs in payload:
"include_outputs": false

// Include Bitcoin transaction witness in payload:
"include_witness": false

Author: I will add these in the next revision as I wanted to walk through an example in this doc. Adding these at the end might be confusing with how the doc is structured.
However, I did mention that there are other options to create a chainhook. @BLuEScioN Sounds good?

> The right pane navigates to the Projects page with the Chainhook tab open, and you can view the chainhook created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The right pane navigates to the Projects page with the Chainhooks tab open, and you can view the chainhook created.
```

> The right pane navigates to the Projects page with the Chainhooks tab open, and you can view the chainhook created.

Reviewer 2: Depending on what happens with @elenananana's feedback on the tab, we may have to correct here and also in the product. cc: @andresgalante

Author: Per Elena's comment above, the tab remains Chainhooks. Hence marking this comment as resolved.

---
title: Create Chainhook
---

# Create Chainhook

> Chainhook is a powerful feature that enables you to automatically trigger an action based upon a predicate event occurring. To learn more about Chainhook, refer to [Chainhook overview documentation](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/overview).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chainhook enables you to automatically trigger an action based upon an event occurring in Stacks, Bitcoin and others. To learn more about Chainhook, refer to [Chainhook overview documentation](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/overview).
```

This guide helps you create a Chainhook using the [Hiro Platform](https://platform.hiro.so/).

Login to the [Hiro Platform](getting-started.md) and create or import a project by following [this](https://docs.hiro.so/platform/create-project) guide. Next, you can follow the steps below to create a chainhook.

Once you are on the [Projects page](https://platform.hiro.so/projects), select the project to create a chainhook.

![Create Projects](./images/chainhook-create-project.jpeg)

You'll see a navigation bar with two tabs, Contracts, and Chainhook. Select Chainhook to create a new chainhook.

![Create Chainhook Window](./images/chainhook-select-chainhook-tab.jpeg)

Select the _Create chainhook_ button at the bottom of the screen.

![Create Chainhook Window](./images/chainhook-create-chainhook-window.jpeg)

A new pane opens up on the right to create a chainhook. Use the following fields to create a chainhook:

> **Name**: Select a name of your choice for chainhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Name**: Define a chainhook name of your choice.
```

> **Chain**: Select the chain between Bitcoin and Stacks to create a chainhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Chain**: Select between Bitcoin and Stacks to create a chainhook.
```

> **Network**: Choose a network between `mainnet` and `testnet` to run the chainhook node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Network**: Choose a network between `mainnet` and `testnet` to observe for events 
```

**If-this**: Based on the selected chain, you will see a list of available scopes for the `If-this` condition.

> - For *Bitcoin*, the available predicate options are `txid`,`outputs`, `stacks_protocols`.

Reviewer 2: @BLuEScioN: please verify the choices starting here, and the corresponding text.

Author: @BLuEScioN Do you have any feedback here?

Reviewer 2: @BLuEScioN: ping

Reviewer 3: yes provided feedback

Author: Thanks!

- For *Stacks*, the available predicate options are `txid`, `block_height`, `fungible_token_event`,
`non-fungible_token_event`, `stx_event`, `print_event`, `contract_deployment`.

> _**Note**_

> > _Refer to the following predicate definition documents to understand the available predicates and how to define them._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> _Refer to the following documents to understand the available predicates and how to use them._
```

**URL**: Specify a URL to post chainhook events using the HTTP_post method.

**Authorization Header**: This field is optional to add a Secret to the `authorization` header when posting payloads.

**Start Block**: This field must specify the start block to search the chain.

**End Block**: It is optional to specify the end block. However, to optimize your scan time, it is recommended to specify this field.

**Expire After Occurrence**: You can specify a number greater than or equal to 1 to expire the chainhook after a specific number of occurrences. You can leave this blank if you don't want to set any limit.

**Decode Clarity Values**: This is enabled by default to help you decode clarity values in your contract.

Once you define the fields, you can select **Create chainhook**.

The right pane navigates to the Projects page with the Chainhook tab open, and you can view the chainhook created.

![Chainhook created](images/chainhook-created.jpeg)

The `name`, `chain`, `last updated`, `start block`, `testnet`, and `mainnet` headers are updated based on the selected fields used to create a chainhook.

> Based on the chosen network, the status of the chainhook is updated to **Deployed**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on the chosen network, the respective status columns in the Chainhook list page will be updated to **Deployed**.
```
